We are recording and we're talking with Chip Kidd.
And there are just so many different ways to start this, I guess.
But I guess I love the fact that you treat the book.
I have to say, reading your book and interviews with you, and also drawing from my own experience down at Yale, talking to people who design books down there, do you actually read the books that you design?
Well, I...
In my experience, a good many of the book designers that I know, the book jacket designers, I guess is more accurate to say, I think that's more the norm than not.
Now, there's not always an option.
You know, often a jacket is needed before there's a finished manuscript or even a finished first draft.
Sometimes you only get a part of it to read, but yeah, ideally you need to read the books first before you start.
Do you approach a novel differently than you, say, might deal with the work of nonfiction?
It all depends.
I don't think about it that way as much as I think about what actually is the book
what is the book?
What's it about?
How is the author approaching the subject matter?
There's a book a while back by Robert Pulido on the life of Jim Thompson, the author.
The impulse when you're doing a biography is to find an interesting picture of the subject and
do a type treatment and that and so for that but you know Jim Thompson was you know this took pulp crime writing and kind of elevated it to an art form or at least that was the one of the angles of the book so I made the cover I sort of basically deconstructed and then reconstructed some pop some um
pulp covers up his books.
So that sort of, that was a way of approaching it in a different way, because I thought that that was appropriate for him.
So, you know, it's really kind of one, you just take it one case at a time.
All books are different, you know.
Sometimes it might be interesting to
uh, you know, take a novel, um, and not make it look like a work of fiction.
Uh, and of course that's, that's a kind of, you know, general, over-generalized statement, but, um,
There are many different ways to do that, but sometimes that would seem to make sense.
Do you try to challenge the reader, or do you really want the perspective?
What is a successful jacket for you?
If someone goes to a bookstore and picks up the book, you've already succeeded in what you're supposed to do.
Yeah, you've just totally summed it up.
That's that.
That's your job.
That's my job.
As I've said many, many times before, I'm a great believer in that book jackets don't sell books.
Bookstores sell books.
But what a really good book jacket will do is kind of capture your attention amidst the sea of...
its surroundings in a bookstore and there's many many different factors to uh why books sell or don't sell um but you know i'm i'm glad that it's uh it's still a relatively mysterious
that you just can't, you know, you just can't.
There's no formula, really.
You know, you've contributed to this, certainly, but there was a time quite a while, not so long ago, really, when people would buy books, and one of the first things they did was remove the dust jackets and throw them away.
Yeah, like a candy bar.
Like a candy bar.
And, of course, if you look at values of books today,
in the marketplace, you know, first Gatsby, for instance, you know, what the jacket might be worth, pick a number, and without the jacket is maybe 10% of that.
And you can't even, more recently, you know, modern first, you can't even hope to market a book that doesn't have the jacket with it.
So the jacket really has become, is regarded as an integral
element of the book, the materiality of the book.
There was a wonderful study published a couple years ago called Paratexts.
Are you familiar with that?
No.
A French scholar by the name of Jeunet
And he talks about the various physical elements that go into the making of a book and a distinguishing book.
And he talks about dust jackets, he talks about type, he talks about design, he talks about how the appendices and all of the physical aspects that make a book a book.
And I would say clearly Tom Hodes.
among these today are the jacket.
And I'm sure that you would heartily agree with that assessment.
Yeah, certainly.
Type, of course, factors into what works into the equation with you, I assume.
Of course, selection of type.
You also have a Penn State background.
I do, yeah.
I majored in graphic design at Penn State, and I wrote a novel called The Cheese Monkeys, and that's what that's about.
I was amused to see
So you describe Penn State as the 13th grade in Pennsylvania?
Yeah.
I went to Penn State graduate school 40 years ago this fall.
Oh, my God.
It was because I was graduating from a school up in Maine Beach College.
And I was being drafted out into Vietnam.
And I had just been waitlisted at Columbia for their journalism school.
Everybody in the world was trying to stay out of the military.
So that's how I got to Penn State.
Wow.
And for journalism?
Journalism, yeah.
I was there for a year, and then I got a fellowship in Washington, D.C.
And then ultimately, they got me.
I had to go in the Navy.
Anyway, I enjoyed Penn State.
I did too.
I mean, first of all, I would think in most states, the state university of the 13th grade, it's certainly not something that's unique to Pennsylvania.
But as I look back, it's actually kind of appalling how little thought I wanted to put into where I went to college.
And I knew I had to go.
And I wanted to go, but I was so wrapped up in high school that I didn't want to research schools.
I didn't want to be bothered with visiting other places, and Penn State seemed fine.
And that was that.
It certainly hasn't hurt you in a long way.
No, no, not at all.
I like reading where your great goal in life was to be Chris Partridge on the Partridge family.
So did you really have any clue as to what you were looking for in life early on?
I mean, you got to New York, you got yourself a job, a great job, within a month, which you've had now for 20 odd years.
Yeah.
I mean, explain to me how the dust jacket became such a prominent aspect of your life.
Yeah, I mean, it's odd.
You know, did things work out, quote, the way I thought they were going to?
No.
Did they work out really well?
Yes.
So, I mean, I knew...
you know, by high school, that I wanted to do something creative.
But beyond that, I didn't really have strong opinions or thoughts about what exactly that could be.
I mean, I was, I mean, all kidding aside with the Chris Partridge thing, I was very into music and playing the drums.
But I didn't, the pragmatist in me didn't see...
a clear path to happily doing that for a living.
I don't think I was professional symphony orchestra material, plus that kind of music was interesting, but not that interesting to me, especially if you're playing the drums.
Watch the percussion section of any symphony you go to.
They're usually not doing much of anything.
May I interrupt?
I was at the Boston Symphony a couple years ago with my wife, and I was talking to a gentleman nearby, and I was openly admiring the work of what I said to the drummer, and he said, you mean the timpanis?
Right, yeah.
That would be... Well, that was the other thing.
You know, I was good at a lot of stuff, but not the timpani.
And I guess that's my coda to this, so to speak, is that, you know,
The drummer in a symphony orchestra is the timpanist, basically.
But I didn't know notes, and I couldn't tune anything, and that's what it is constantly.
So you became attracted to the book with a capital B, and maybe you could talk to me a little bit about your own feelings about the book as artifacts.
And just as a conversational way of... Well, you know, I don't know.
Let's see, what can I say about it that hasn't really been said?
I mean, I think certainly in the past couple of years I've been asked if I think that
books are going to go the way of LPs.
Yeah, and I think that's the stupidest question in the world myself, too, so that's why you won't hear me asking it.
No, you can't.
You certainly can't.
I mean, and my opinion, of course, is no, and there's all different kinds of ways to talk about this, but, you know, when you think about it,
You know, the LP and then the CD are really rather strange 20th century phenomena in that it made music into a thing.
It made it into a physical object, which it never had been before.
That's nice, by the way.
I like that.
Thank you.
That's good.
All right.
Well, let's put it in.
That's neat to me.
Go ahead.
Whereas books have always been physical objects.
So, you know, before you could record something, if you went to see a Beethoven symphony or something, I mean, that was it.
You know, you went and you listened to it and that's how you perceived it.
That's how you, you know, you kept it in your memory or what have you.
And then
when recording devices came along, you know, you would put it on an Edison roll, or you'd put it on a 78, or, you know, etc., etc., until it became a CD, and now it's back to what it was before, which is just pure sound.
But books, you know, starting with scrolls, were always physical objects.
They were always
things that you had and held and stored and kept.
They are, I think, one of the perfect interactive devices.
And I think all this talk about digitizing books and making every book available online and all that, I mean, obviously that is happening and will happen, but it's not going to...
It's not going to replace people buying and reading books.
Well, I think the closest I will ever come, because I've written five books about books, but the closest I'll ever come to writing a love scene in a book is where I describe the tactility of actually stroking a book.
Sure.
All of the senses are involved.
If it's beautiful, I mean, you open an old book, you smell it.
It's intoxicating.
If the binding is developed, you stroke it.
At what point do you lick it, though?
There are people that do.
I mean, I sort of draw the line there.
That's good.
You made me laugh.
Thank you.
That's good.
But there is a tactile relationship, I think, with the book.
And it is interesting that you design hardcover books.
I mean, you don't really even do the paperbacks.
I do some paperbacks.
But they're certainly very much in the minority of the stuff that I've done.
But that reflects a commitment to the high end of the book.
I mean, as also, not only as an object, but as an enduring object.
You talk about tattoos, which amuses me too, because I've actually written about tattoos.
tattoos on human skin as an ephemeral lighting surface.
I mean, when the person dies, the writing, you know, whatever the tattoo is, it kind of goes away with the decedent unless somebody strips the... I've actually written about, you know, lighting surfaces, which is why the paper kind of emerges from that.
But when you do a book, I mean, as you point out, the book is a...
a commitment to something that's going to be around for a while.
I mean, it's going to outlive all of us.
And you also point out the financial commitment to a book also becomes an emotional one.
I think it's part and parcel of the same thing.
It just kind of, again, brings us back to the artifact because a book is more than just a carrier of information.
It has an artifactual value to it.
I guess.
And of course the work that you do as designer and book jacket artist is all part of that particular package, I guess.
Yeah, definitely.
You know, I find it awkward on the phone.
I hope you don't mind.
I usually prefer to do these, like yourself, I'm very visual and I'm really
You get your ideas from what you see also, not just from what you see, so you'll have to forgive me for jumping around the block on the interview here.
I do want to talk a little bit about your own collecting of stuff and things, and Professor McClatchy calls your apartment the Batcave, which I think is kind of cool.
And if you could talk to me a little bit about your own collecting of stuff and of things.
Well, sure.
God, there's so many different ways to talk about it.
I mean, first of all, having a modest-sized one-bedroom apartment in New York does sort of cramp one's style a little bit when you're a collector because, you know, true collectors, which I think I am one of, are always on the hunt for stuff.
And it's...
it's kind of reached critical mass a bit but but you know my the first real book i did as author and designer and art director and body blah was this book that being collected in 1996 and it was about my sort of lifelong passion for collecting batman stuff um even unwittingly as a child or wittingly but not you know
you're not collecting it then for the same reasons I think that you do later.
Well, there's an intellectual element that it is after a point, I think, too.
Yeah.
That you don't have as a kid.
Well, maybe not.
Right.
I don't know.
Go ahead.
I'm sorry.
No, that's all right.
But, I mean, the curious thing about Batman is that, you know, even though now it's in the last 20 years, um,
for 15 years, become more of a movie phenomenon and all of that.
I mean, the roots really are in the comic books, which are, of course, still published to this day.
So there's the whole issue of collecting comics, which I sort of do, but I don't do that the way I collect everything else, which is
as objects, which is the toys, the artwork.
The problem with, like, quote-unquote serious comic, the people that collect the stuff from the 40s, 30s and 40s, which is known as the golden age, and it's become outrageously, and, you know, they're so fragile, and they weren't,
meant to be archival, really, but they have to become archival.
So, literally, they get locked away in these clear... Well, acetate's one thing, but in the last, like, ten years, this phenomenon, I don't even, there must be an official name for them, but they're really like these flat,
fiberglass coffins, which basically allow you to look at the cover and that's about it.
So I always found that it's kind of sad that you can't really enjoy it.
It's a very strange fetishization of this
that's meant to be open and read and enjoyed.
And, you know, you talk about, you know, you can add a certain visual element to an old vintage comic book that usually is not found in, say, you know, a vintage first edition of Gatsby.
I mean, it's there a little bit, but it's there ten zillion fold more in an old comic book.
So I've...
For me, it was more about collecting the toys because there's a way to enjoy them sitting on a shelf that you can't with a comic book, if that makes any sense at all.
It does, it does.
And it goes on from there.
I came to learn, you know, at some point that Batman was hugely popular in Japan.
when the TV show came out in the late 60s.
So there was all this stuff that was made over there.
And it's just fascinating because there was no sort of stylistic quality control on any of it.
Even though it was officially licensed, it verges on folk art.
Because they, you know, they
thought nothing of making Batman's costume red, you know.
You know, why not?
It looks interesting.
Well, because it's supposed to be blue, but they, you know, so there's all kinds of variations on that.
I mean, if you, you know, if you come into the city at some point and we can arrange the time or whatever, you're right, it'd be much more interesting to show you this stuff rather than talk about it.
And, you know,
Are you going to be in the city over the next two weeks?
We are.
We're... And the only reason I ask is because I'd like to write this for the next... I've got two or three weeks before I have to turn in copy.
But if it's at all possible, if it could be done, and if you're in the city... I think it's possible.
We are going to... And of course now I'm totally freaking out in light of the event yesterday.
Yeah.
We're supposed to go to Sun Valley, Idaho next Wednesday.
And there's a writer's conference out there.
So we're doing that, and then we get back, I believe, the 22nd.
to the 21st.
Oh, we'll see.
If I can give you a call or an email and if we can do it, we can do it.
I'd love to see it.
If only to write, to give this piece of the kind of texture that I think it should have.
But let's continue with the conversation because I really do want to ask about how you, why Batman?
You know, I do love that.
Those two panels that you have at the beginning of the book, by the way, Robin understands that you're already accounted for, which is just fabulous.
Yeah, well, my friend Chris Ware did that as a Christmas present.
That's awfully nice.
Yeah, it's amazing.
So you probably explain this in your Batman book, but what explains this passion for Batman?
Well, I sort of...
I do talk about it, but I also cop out because I also say, you know, when you're obsessed with something like that the way I am, it's very hard.
They defy reasoning.
I mean, I was two years old when the fad hit, and I had a brother that was two years older than me.
So he was, what, four?
And so even though it seems we were on the young side, we were really the target age for this thing that was happening.
And, you know, and we dressed up and watched the show and, you know, my dad.
So you remember the show with Adam Weston?
Of course.
And, you know, the difference, as I say in the book, is
I mean, you know, this is happening to lots of kids, you know, the way maybe Harry Potter is today.
But, you know, the fat sort of exploded and then fizzled out, but I just never really got over it.
And it's not like Batman went away.
It just wasn't nearly as popular as it was.
But what's been interesting over the, you know, following...
uh what 40 years got um is the sort of waxing and waning like you'll become really popular for this or that reason for a while and then it'll fade back a bit but it's researched the good i'd say four times now
Like, maybe every ten years.
Actually, this very recent one that I thought was pretty good.
The movie?
Yeah.
I like the way they really explain those early years, where he learned all this stuff.
Yeah, and that's all from comics lore.
I mean, they really did their homework.
I even thought they maybe came up with that.
I didn't know that that was all documented in the comics.
No, they...
I mean, they invented a few things, but most of it's all from the 70s, actually.
In the comics in the 70s, Batman became more of an almost James Bond-like figure in that he was traveling all over the world doing this and that.
and that whole Ra's al Ghul thing.
Well, it explains how he gets the toys.
It explains how he learns to be so good.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, that was very clever.
Yeah.
Very clever.
I think just as a fan and quasi-expert, what disappointed me was the ending.
Exactly.
I don't know if you saw Spider-Man 2.
No.
There's an epic battle...
I guess towards the end of Spider-Man 2 between Dr. Octopus and Spider-Man aboard a moving elevated train in, you know, in New York, of course, which there isn't any in Manhattan, but they make one up anyway, and it's brilliantly done.
And I just thought, you know, once that's been done in pop cinema or whatever you want to call it.
Well, you know,
Not even that it's a cliché, it's just that they did it and they did it perfectly, so do something else.
But anyway.
But it was not bad.
No, it wasn't.
I'm sorry.
So tell me about your stuff.
Tell me about some of the high spots of the collection.
Is it a fairly comprehensive documentation of the Batman phenomenon?
Oh, God.
Well, see, I think you'd walk in and look at it and...
I'd be dazzled, right?
Well, not that you would be dazzled, but you would say yes, that it is that, because... Would I also say, to interrupt it, this is Chip Kidd.
Okay.
Because I maintain that collections really are, you know, they're just extensions of the person.
Yeah, I mean, I... One of my...
rehearsed lines is that when you walk into my apartment, I want it to be like you're walking into my head.
I saw that in the Times piece.
Yeah.
That's a good line.
That's why I didn't ask it.
But I'll use it if you don't mind.
Because it's also, it's the furniture, it's everything.
It's everything all tying up into one.
So do you fantasize at all?
Are you ever Batman?
No.
I, uh... You must fantasize about something.
We all do.
I mean, you know...
You can follow that as you want to.
I don't know to what extent you want me to talk about that, but the whole, you know, like if I'm seeing somebody, do I want them to dress up as Batman in certain situations, which I won't elaborate on.
Nope, that's fine, and I wasn't asking that either.
No, that's okay.
But no, I mean, other than that whole...
I mean, certainly, if I was going to seriously fantasize, I would fantasize about being Superman, not Batman.
I was going to ask about Superman, you know.
I had a wonderful interview a few years, ten years or so ago, with Bohati Mukherjee, you know, the Indian-American novelist.
Uh-huh.
I don't even think she's a comp author, but I'm not sure.
Yeah, that sounds familiar.
B-H-A-R-T-I Mukaiji.
She won a National Book Critics Circle Award.
And she's just fascinated by the holodeck, you know, on Star Trek.
Oh, yeah.
And she and I were talking about the holodeck, you know, and I said, you know, it's amazing.
You could go in, of course, as a guy, you could...
You could fantasize, not fantasize, you could actually make love to Marilyn Monroe, you know?
And of course she turns around and she says, oh, you could be Marilyn Monroe.
It's just amazing the approach that you would take to the fantasy, I suppose.
And the thing that always bothered me about the holodeck, and I'm assuming she's
referring to the next generation as opposed to the classics?
I believe so, yeah, because they really did allow you to do whatever your fantasies were.
Right.
It was just never clear to me, and maybe they explained it and I missed it, but it's one thing to do holograms of things, but then to make it all into solid material, that's what kind of ruined it for me, because I just thought,
I just don't buy that.
Well, it would be kind of fun, though, if they could.
Well, certainly.
Certainly.
But I think that's what they were talking about.
I mean, because they had any number of different episodes where, you know, people were totally fooled by holodeck-type technology into thinking that something was that it wasn't.
Right.
But we need to go off on that.
All right.
This is kind of fun.
I think, I don't want to overstay my welcome here, but in your mind, is there a Dust Jacket Hall of Fame?
Dust Jacket Hall of Fame.
Well, do you mean...
Pure Alvin Lustig, for instance.
Oh, oh, oh, is that?
Okay, okay.
Who have you learned from, I guess, is what I'm trying to say.
For your heroes in that particular, or do you have heroes in that particular area?
And you have some of them, of course, in your book, but maybe you can articulate some of it for me, if you wouldn't mind.
Well, certainly Lustig.
The interesting thing about Lustig is...
when I am compared to somebody it's usually him which is very flattering but the person that I became first aware of and actually studied in college was Dwiggins I didn't find out about Lustig until much much later until well after I was
doing my thing, so to speak.
So, I mean, that's not really a disclaimer.
It's just, it's just, it's more of a fact.
It was more of like discovering his work and thinking, oh, I guess, I guess I'm, you know, it seems like it should have influenced me more than it actually did, is what I'm trying to say, which is not to take away from the achievement at all.
But, yeah, I mean, you know, for here, quantity and quality, I'd probably say he's the top.
I have all of Tennessee Williams in first edition, by the way, and would be the one author, if I were to start, say, deaccessioning my collections, which are pretty interesting.
The last one to go would be the Tennessee Williams.
He is my...
He's easily one of the most underappreciated writers.
Of course, he's, I think, a great playwright of the 20th century, in my view.
You really think he's underappreciated?
To pick up a play, one of his plays, and to read it as fiction is what I'm trying to say.
Huh.
I mean, how many people do you know to pick up Tennessee Williams and read him?
I'd be curious to know how many people actually do that.
Huh.
I mean, you think so?
I mean, to pick up a Tennessee Williams play and to read it, it's a different experience to me, as much as I enjoy seeing him performed, but he's such a brilliant writer as well.
I mean, his setting up of these scenes and the prose and the quality of the writing is just dazzling.
I've just always...
loved his uh his plays i have them all and of course lustig you know you get tennessee you get uh you get lustig as well so yeah which which actually brings up an interesting point i mean what do you think of that cover i love it the purple one i don't much care for uh on uh
Yeah, that's my least, especially because it just doesn't hold up, it fades.
You always have a...
I happen to have a really wonderful copy of that book without the sun's spine.
Do you think of these things at all as to how a dust jacket is going to survive the test of time, by the way?
Well, one thing I learned very early on is that fluorescent ink is extremely unstable, which hasn't stopped me from using it, but it's certainly stopped me from storing books with fluorescent ink on them anywhere near a...
a strong light source.
Yes, I try to, I certainly try to think about
what a book that I work on will look like in five years or ten years.
You do think about that.
Oh, my God, yeah.
Good.
I mean, I think throughout the 90s, there was this real sort of explosion in the graphic design world because in terms of type and in terms of computer-manipulated imagery, which continues, there were all of these
graphic designers, a lot of them from California, doing all this really wild experimental stuff and it was getting a lot of attention, continues to get a lot of attention, but I just didn't feel like that I should emulate that really.
First of all, because I didn't feel it as an artistic impulse or however you want to call it, but also
you know, this whole notion that, you know, these hardcover books are hopefully going to be around forever, and, you know, you see certain book jackets from a certain era, and you just think, oh, my God, that just looks so dated.
And I think there was... That definitely goes into...
a lot of my thought processes when designing the book jacket, which is, I think, maybe why my stuff in comparison is rather tame to a lot.
I mean, now at the same time, I've been described as avant-garde and edgy, which I've never understood.
I think maybe just everything's relative, and what might seem edgy to John Updike is really
because he's just something that's of a much more conservative taste.
Uptake says you bring a playful thinginess to the task, which is kind of a cute way of describing it.
Yeah, no, I mean, look, I'm thrilled with the introduction that he wrote to the book.
I mean, it was just... Hunter-Gatherer, which is kind of cool.
Do you agree with that?
Oh, absolutely.
Oh, my God.
That's both literal and figuratively accurate.
I was dazzled.
I knew he was from Shillington, of course, and that's amazing to have two superstars.
Well, his star is a lot more super than mine.
Yeah, but you're what, 41, 42?
You're a kid.
Well.
You've still got many, many years of productive work, and what is it now, 1,600 or so?
Well, that turned out to be a myth that I perpetuated because when
my assistant and I basically hunkered down and, I mean, that figure I always came up with as a mathematical equation of, okay, I, you know, Knopf does three lists a year.
I usually do upwards of 10 books a list, plus there's freelance and blah, blah, blah, and came up with 1,500 like five years ago.
Well,
When we sat down and really counted everything, it was really closer to 900.
Okay.
Oh, so you're pushing 1,000 then.
Yeah.
So we'll say about 1,000?
I guess so.
Any favorites?
No.
It's like asking a person to pick a favorite among his kids.
Right.
You can't do it.
Any you wish you'd have another shot at?
Oh, certainly.
I mean, the one example in the book is...
Sometimes you do get another shot at it.
And, uh, the best example was, um, The Shock of the New, by, uh, by Robert Hughes.
Good book.
Um, hmm, I wonder what that noise is.
Right here?
It might be, it could be another incoming call.
Do you want to take it?
Uh, no.
So I did a cover for that in paperback when it was revised, and it was really bad, and I was young, and how it got approved, I don't know, but it did.
And then about maybe eight years later, we repackaged it again, and I came up with a much better idea for it, was able to redo it.
But yeah, I mean, there's...
There's lots of reasons that a jacket may turn out bad, everything from I'm out of inspiration to authors that micromanage it to death, and everything in between.
But, you know, I would happily say that in my case, I think the...
More interesting ones outnumber the less interesting ones.
Just briefly, and then I'll let you go because we're pushing it now.
I think that's an awful lot to ask one person.
I suppose if there's any other...
jacket designer that approaches you, certainly not in terms of celebrity, but people will say a Wendell Minor jacket, for instance, is, you know, I can recognize a minor jacket, I can recognize a Chip Kidd jacket instantly.
Would you, would you, uh,
I don't even know what the question is, but there are others.
Who among your contemporaries, might I ask, would you say you admire?
Well, I think the other people that I work with at Knopf are tremendously talented.
My boss, the actual art director is a woman named Carol Devine Carson.
I'm not even the official art director she is.
She's great.
It liberates you in a way, I would bet.
Yes.
Oh, believe me, I would not want... Then you've got the administrator shit down.
Plus, you know, the C word, cookbooks.
You have to deal with all the cookbooks, which are real problems.
John Gall, G-A-L-L, the art director of vintage for quite some time now, vintage paperbacks.
He's amazing.
I think somebody should...
do a book of his stuff.
Because that's a, God, talk about a logistical nightmare of a job.
And he just does it so well.
I mean, he does
trade paperbacks better than anybody.
That is interesting because, you know, like my deal with Knopf is it's a Knopf vintage.
Sure.
So you're going to go from a Knopf cover to a vintage cover.
Are they going to be different?
Well, not necessarily.
It's a very strange process that I only partially understand, but sometimes vintage will adapt the cover and sometimes they won't.
And I...
It can sometimes really alarm me and sometimes make me angry.
And it's not the art director's decision.
It's almost always an editorial thing.
And what I've never understood is if a book does well in hardcover... I can understand if a book underperforms.
It doesn't meet expectations.
All right, let's do a new cover for the paperback and see what happens.
But sometimes you...
don't get that scenario.
You get, oh, you know, they changed the cover even though it did well in our cover, but I don't know.
Anyway, I'm going off topic here.
That's good.
I like the answer.
Go ahead.
The thing about Wendell Minor is that he's also an illustrator, so I think that makes his stuff a lot more recognizable because you recognize his illustrative style.
there's a guy named paul sar who's brilliant s-a-h-r-e um who does a lot of things other than book covers but he does book covers um there's a guy named rodrigo corral who was a student of mine at the school of visual arts who uh continues to do interesting stuff he does all the chuck palahonic stuff um there's a lot of really good interesting people
making book covers.
Not to suggest a cliché, but is it a golden age of jacket illustration?
Oh, God.
I have no idea.
I think a question like that can only be answered in retrospect.
And by people who observe them from a distance.
Yeah.
I mean, there's certainly already, I think,
i think the golden age of this and in my uh in my opinion will be the 90s will be like the mid 90s really i think so right um because i think publishing in general was a lot healthier at that point um
I don't know.
It's not something that I should speculate on, really.
I like it, though.
Are we becoming more conservative now, less adventurous?
I think there's that.
There's definitely that.
Budgets are shrinking.
Now, you know, I'm also a great believer in that really good design doesn't, shouldn't really have anything to do with money.
But everything has something to do with money.
Well, sometimes, yes, and sometimes not.
And trade publishing, to be sure.
Interesting.
You know, sometimes a two-color jacket can be a lot more interesting than a bad four-color jacket.
You know, that kind of thing.
So, we'll see.
I mean, I'm still enjoying it.
I love Knopf.
It's a great place.
You know, it's undergone so much change.
since I started there, from almost the beginning.
Well, you were coming as Gottlieb was going.
Yeah.
I can't believe it was 20 years ago that he was leaving.
That's amazing, because I was reviewing books back in the late 70s when I first started as a book review editor.
So I've been around top books for a long time.
I couldn't believe it when I read it.
Was it really 20 years ago that Gottlieb left?
He never really left, of course.
Well, no, it's weird.
As a matter of fact, we had launched a week and a half ago, and Bob is still an editor-at-large, and often there he was, you know, pitching this book that he was going to be editing on a biography of Lincoln Kirstein, and it was bizarre.
It was like, as much as this changed,
There's a lot about it that's still the same.
I don't want to take up too much... I think I've got a lot of stuff to work with here.
I'm going to take the tape with me, get down the tape this weekend and work on it.
If you don't mind, I'll get back in touch if there's need to follow up on anything.
Yeah, and you can email or call.
Email or call.
And if there's a chance to come by at some point, it doesn't have to be urgently over the next couple of weeks.
I think, you know, the summer is still the summer.
But I would love to come by at some point if it's okay.
Sure.
And certainly when I come in to come up and introduce myself to Vicki, which we want to do.
sooner rather than later.
If you're around, it would be nice to say hello.
And I'd love to talk about your thoughts on paper.
Yeah.
But not today.
Let me get going on the project.
It's really going to be a very interesting project.
I definitely have thoughts on paper.
But I am not, you know, the interesting thing about graphic design, there's so many different aspects of it.
Like some people are obsessed with typography.
Um, I would not say I am obsessed with it, but of course I have an interest in it.
Uh, there's some people who are obsessed with paper.
I am not, frankly.
I mean, I, it's like the, it's like the judge's, um, definition of pornography.
You know, I just know the right paper when I see it.
Um, and, uh,
So I don't know.
I would not be a very interesting person to talk about.
Okay.
I appreciate your candor on that, too.
Well, listen.
Do you want to say hello?
I would, actually, if you don't mind.
Okay.
And it's Nicholas?
Nick Baz Baines.
Nicholas, but Nick is fine.
And just to introduce myself and not to take up too much of his time, but to explain what I'm doing on Longfellow and also on Yale.
It's two separate projects, but two projects that I would love to have as considered...
reaction and response to that I would use in print for Smithsonian and also for the Yale book.
All right, well, just explain it to him.
Hold on a moment.
Thank you so much.
I'm going to shut off the tape real quick.
This is a writer named Nicholas...